Library
=======

The API library provides several interfaces, discussed below. All interfaces
share the methods described in Section `Methods`_.


Generic interface
-----------------

The ``Interface`` class can be used when the type of device is not known
beforehand, A class instance is made by passing either the path to a device or
a URI to the constructor.

.. code:: python

    >>> from simple_rpc import Interface
    >>> interface = Interface('/dev/ttyACM0')

The constructor takes the following parameters.

.. list-table:: Constructor parameters.
   :header-rows: 1

   * - name
     - optional
     - description
   * - ``device``
     - no
     - Device name.
   * - ``baudrate``
     - yes
     - Baud rate.
   * - ``wait``
     - yes
     - Time in seconds before communication starts.
   * - ``autoconnect``
     - yes
     - Automatically connect.
   * - ``load``
     - yes
     - Load interface definition from file.

Please see the list of handlers_ for a full description of the supported
interface types.

Serial interface
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When a path to a serial device is given, the ``Interface`` constructor returns
a ``SerialInterface`` class instance.

.. code:: python

    >>> from simple_rpc import Interface
    >>> interface = Interface('/dev/ttyACM0')
    >>> interface.__class__
    <class 'simple_rpc.simple_rpc.SerialInterface'>

Alternatively, the ``SerialInterface`` class can be used directly.

.. code:: python

    >>> from simple_rpc import SerialInterface
    >>> interface = SerialInterface('/dev/ttyACM0')

Socket interface
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When a socket URI is given, the ``Interface`` constructor returns a
``SocketInterface`` class instance.

.. code:: python

    >>> interface = Interface('socket://192.168.1.50:10000')
    >>> interface.__class__
    <class 'simple_rpc.simple_rpc.SocketInterface'>


Alternatively, the ``SocketInterface`` class can be used directly.

.. code:: python

    >>> from simple_rpc import SocketInterface
    >>> interface = SocketInterface('socket://192.168.1.50:10000')

Methods
^^^^^^^

The ``Interface`` class provides the following methods.

.. list-table:: Class methods.
   :header-rows: 1

   * - name
     - description
   * - ``open()``
     - Connect to device.
   * - ``close()``
     - Disconnect from device.
   * - ``is_open()``
     - Query device state.
   * - ``call_method()``
     - Execute a method.
   * - ``save()``
     - Save the interface definition to a file.

The ``open()`` function is used to connect to a device, this is needed when
``autoconnect=False`` is passed to the constructor.

.. code:: python

    >>> interface = Interface('/dev/ttyACM0', autoconnect=False)
    >>> # Do something.
    >>> interface.open()

The ``open()`` function accepts the optional parameter ``handle``, which can be
used to load an interface definition from a file. This can be useful when
working with low throughput networks.

.. code:: python

    >>> interface.open(open('interface.yml'))

The connection state can be queried using the ``is_open()`` function and it can
be closed using the ``close()`` function.

.. code:: python

    >>> if interface.is_open():
    >>>     interface.close()

Additionally, the ``with`` statement is supported for easy opening and closing.

.. code:: python

    >>> with Interface('/dev/ttyACM0') as interface:
    >>>     interface.ping(10)

The class instance has a public member variable named ``device`` which
contains the device definitions and its exported method definitions.

.. code:: python

    >>> list(interface.device['methods'])
    ['inc', 'set_led']

Example of a method definition.

.. code:: python

    >>> interface.device['methods']['inc']
    {
      'doc': 'Increment a value.',
      'index': 2,
      'name': 'inc',
      'parameters': [
        {
          'doc': 'Value.',
          'name': 'a',
          'fmt': 'h',
          'typename': 'int'
        }
      ],
      'return': {
        'doc': 'a + 1.',
        'fmt': 'h',
        'typename': 'int'}
    }

Every exported method will show up as a class method of the ``interface`` class
instance. These methods can be used like any normal class methods.
Alternatively, the exported methods can be called by name using the
``call_method()`` function.

The ``save()`` function is used to save the interface definition to a file.
This can later be used by the constructor or the ``open()`` function to
initialise the interface without having to query the device.

.. code:: python

    >>> interface.save(open('interface.yml', 'w'))


Basic usage
-----------

In the example_ given in the device library documentation, the ``inc`` method
is exported, which is now present as a class method of the class instance.

.. code:: python

    >>> interface.inc(1)
    2

Alternatively, the exported method can be called using the ``call_mathod()``
function.

.. code:: python

    >>> interface.call_method('inc', 1)
    2

To get more information about this class method, the built-in ``help()``
function can be used.

.. code:: python

    >>> help(interface.inc)
    Help on method inc:

    inc(a) method of simple_rpc.simple_rpc.SerialInterface instance
        Increment a value.

        :arg int a: Value.

        :returns int: a + 1.

Note that strings should be encoded as ``bytes`` objects. If, for example, we
have a function named ``test`` that takes a string as parameter, we should call
this function as follows.

.. code:: python

    >>> interface.test(b'hello world')


Complex objects
---------------

Some methods may have complex objects like Tuples, Objects or Vectors as
parameters or return type.

In the following example, we call a method that takes a Vector of integers and
returns a Vector of floats.

.. code:: python

    >>> interface.vector([1, 2, 3, 4])
    [1.40, 2.40, 3.40, 4.40]

In this example, we call a method that takes an Object containing a byte and an
other Object. A similar Object is returned.

.. code:: python

    >>> interface.object((b'a', (10, b'b')))
    (b'b', (11, b'c'))

.. note::

    In this implementation, the ``Tuple`` type is regarded as a flat sequence
    of elements, not as a separate type. The ``Object`` type is used to assign
    this sequence of elements to a Python ``tuple`` and the ``Vector`` type is
    used to assign this sequence of elements to a Python ``list``. Bare tuples
    are not supported in this implementation.

    Using Tuples may lead to some other counter intuitive results. For example,
    a Vector of length *l* containing Tuples of size *n* is received as a list
    containing *lÂ·n* elements.


.. _example: https://simplerpc.readthedocs.io/en/stable/usage_device.html#example
.. _handlers: https://pyserial.readthedocs.io/en/stable/url_handlers.html
